RUNNING_TESTS.md, before:


## Running AR-JDBC's Tests

After you have built arjdbc (run rake), then you can try testing it (if you
do not build then adapter_java.jar is not put into the lib dir).  If you
change any of the .java files you will need to rebuild.

Most DB specific unit tests hide under the **test/db** directory, the files
included in the *test* directory are mostly shared test modules and helpers.

Rake tasks are loaded from **rakelib/02-test-rake**, most adapters have a
corresponding test_[adapter] task e.g. `rake test_sqlite3` that run against DB.
To check all available (test related) tasks simply `rake -T | grep test`.

If the adapter supports creating a database it will try to do so automatically
(most embed databases such as SQLite3) for some adapters (MySQL, PostgreSQL) we
do this auto-magically (see the `rake db:create` tasks), but otherwise you'll
need to setup a database dedicated for tests (using the standard tools that come
with your DB installation).

Connection parameters: database, host etc. can usually be changed from the shell
`env` for adapters where there might be no direct control over the DB
instance/configuration, e.g. for Oracle (by looking at **test/db/oracle.rb**)
one might adapt the test database configuration using :
```
export ORACLE_HOST=192.168.1.2
export ORACLE_USER=SAMPLE
export ORACLE_PASS=sample
export ORACLE_SID=MAIN
```

Tests are by default run against the "current" ActiveRecord version locked down
by Bundler, however since we usually do support more versions from a single code
base run those with the (appraisal) provided task e.g. for MySQL :

    rake appraisal:rails31 test_mysql TEST=test/db/mysql/rake_test.rb

Observe the **TEST** variable used to specify a single file to be used to resolve
test cases, you pick tests by matching their names as well using **TESTOPTS** :

    rake appraisal:rails40 test_postgres TESTOPTS="--name=/integer/"

This of course also works when running the "plain" test (no appraisal:xxx) task.

Since 1.3.0 we also support prepared statements, these are off by default (AR)
but one can easily run tests with prepared statements enabled using env vars :

    rake test_derby PS=true # or PREPARED_STATEMENTS=true


### ActiveRecord (Rails) Tests

It's very desirable to pass all unit tests from ActiveRecord's own test suite.
Unfortunately it's been a while since we have accomplished that, luckily a lot
of failures are artificial (and would require tweaks at the Rails repo itself),
others simply need quality time spent to get them in shape and address issues.

First make sure you have the ActiveRecord (Rails) sources cloned locally :

    git clone git://github.com/rails/rails.git

To run the AR-JDBC's sources agains AR tests, use the **rails:test** task, be
sure to specify a **DRIVER** and the **RAILS** sources path on the file system :

    jruby -S rake rails:test DRIVER=derby RAILS=path/to/rails_source_dir

There's even tasks for Rails built-in adapters e.g. `rake rails:test_mysql`

You will likely only be able to run the Rails suite against the latest (stable)
ActiveRecord ~> version we support (check the *Gemfile.lock*) e.g. for
**activerecord (3.2.13)** you want to **git checkout 3-2-stable** branch.

We strive to not stub and include native (MRI) test required artefacts into
(non-test) code e.g. the `Mysql` module, instead put that into **test/rails**.

[![Build Status][0]](http://travis-ci.org/#!/jruby/activerecord-jdbc-adapter)

Happy Testing!

[0]: https://secure.travis-ci.org/jruby/activerecord-jdbc-adapter.png

Commit message:

Change task names a little bit and add :basic_test since this is what I am most commonly hitting when working on the new adapters. This also removes the need to pass in RAILS env in the case that you happen to clone into sibling directory to arjdbc (and who doesn't?).

RUNNING_TESTS.md, after:


## Running AR-JDBC's Tests

After you have built arjdbc (run rake), then you can try testing it (if you
do not build then adapter_java.jar is not put into the lib dir).  If you
change any of the .java files you will need to rebuild.

Most DB specific unit tests hide under the **test/db** directory, the files
included in the *test* directory are mostly shared test modules and helpers.

Rake tasks are loaded from **rakelib/02-test-rake**, most adapters have a
corresponding test_[adapter] task e.g. `rake test_sqlite3` that run against DB.
To check all available (test related) tasks simply `rake -T | grep test`.

If the adapter supports creating a database it will try to do so automatically
(most embed databases such as SQLite3) for some adapters (MySQL, PostgreSQL) we
do this auto-magically (see the `rake db:create` tasks), but otherwise you'll
need to setup a database dedicated for tests (using the standard tools that come
with your DB installation).

Connection parameters: database, host etc. can usually be changed from the shell
`env` for adapters where there might be no direct control over the DB
instance/configuration, e.g. for Oracle (by looking at **test/db/oracle.rb**)
one might adapt the test database configuration using :
```
export ORACLE_HOST=192.168.1.2
export ORACLE_USER=SAMPLE
export ORACLE_PASS=sample
export ORACLE_SID=MAIN
```

Tests are by default run against the "current" ActiveRecord version locked down
by Bundler, however since we usually do support more versions from a single code
base run those with the (appraisal) provided task e.g. for MySQL :

    rake appraisal:rails31 test_mysql TEST=test/db/mysql/rake_test.rb

Observe the **TEST** variable used to specify a single file to be used to resolve
test cases, you pick tests by matching their names as well using **TESTOPTS** :

    rake appraisal:rails40 test_postgres TESTOPTS="--name=/integer/"

This of course also works when running the "plain" test (no appraisal:xxx) task.

Since 1.3.0 we also support prepared statements, these are off by default (AR)
but one can easily run tests with prepared statements enabled using env vars :

    rake test_derby PS=true # or PREPARED_STATEMENTS=true


### ActiveRecord (Rails) Tests

We also have the ability to run our adapters against Rails ActiveRecord
tests as well.  First, make sure you have the Rails repository cloned locally:

    git clone git://github.com/rails/rails.git

If you clone Rails to the same parent directory this project is cloned to
then you may do either:

   jruby -S rake rails:test:sqlite
   jruby -S rake rails:test:postgres
   jruby -S rake rails:test:mysql

If you have your rails source in another directory then you can pass
in **RAILS**:

   jruby -S rake rails:test:sqlite RAILS=../../somewhere/rails

If you are working on a more exotic adapter you can also pass in **DRIVER**:

  jruby -S rake rails:test:all DRIVER=derby

Note, that if you want to test against particular version of Rails you need
to check out the proper branch in Rails source (e.g. v5.0.2).  If you are
just starting to debug an adapter then running:

   jruby -S rake rails:test:sqlite:basic_test
   jruby -S rake rails:test:postgres:basic_test
   jruby -S rake rails:test:mysql:basic_test

is helpful since basic_test in active-record hits that 80% sweet spot.

[![Build Status][0]](http://travis-ci.org/#!/jruby/activerecord-jdbc-adapter)

Happy Testing!

[0]: https://secure.travis-ci.org/jruby/activerecord-jdbc-adapter.png
